In this video we'll set up shipping options for your e-commerce store for digital and downloadable products.
Newcomers can manage the whole process.
When someone buys a downloadable product like a PTF e-book a piece of software a video or audio file
or any digital item.
This whole process including log ins accounts and download permissions can be automated by the end of
You'll be able to set up Wordpress and newcomer's to manage sales of digital downloads including customer
Let's get started.
We're still going to be working inside of the newcomers store web site that we've been working on.
So make sure you have that site open in one tab and your Wordpress dashboard open in the other.
Let's go to that WordPress dashboard and open up with e-commerce and the settings panel.
Now we have a number of tabs across the top that we've gone over in previous videos.
in the settings.
The one that we've had set now is disable shipping and shipping calculations.
store.
This is what you would have selected.
And then it disables all shipping items from the front end and the back end selections of our site.
But if we opened that up and we could say ship to specific countries only or these are other two selections
But if let's just use shift to specific countries only and then you can choose a country here just by
starting to type the name.
I'm located in the United States so I select that and then I can just go down and choose the rest of
or mobile device is a really good way to do that.
And then we can either enable or disable taxes and tax calculations et cetera.
And so if we go down and save our changes with the new shipping selection you'll see that you have a
And let's set up some examples shipping options for your commerce setup.
So click the shipping tab and you'll see that there are three sub items underneath the shipping tab
shipping zones shipping options and shipping.
Classis of course you can read about any of these using these little question mark tool tips as well
For now we might add a shipping zone that just has our entire country just an offer one shipping zone
for the entire store.
So if the zone name is USA then we can select regions or limit to specific zip codes if we want to.
If I start typing United States I can just leave that as the whole region and then it doesn't have any
The rest of the world is actually another zone within there.
I'm going to save changes here and we can see that you can choose and drag your shipping zones and that's
and then you want to use different different shipping methods for each of those zones.
If you don't add a shipping method to a certain zone like this one in the rest of the world then that
But now we need to offer a shipping method to the zone that we've defined for the entire USA.
So maybe we can use flat rate or you can choose free shipping and that can actually be conditional on
a certain dollar amount being spent or even a coupon code or some other conditional element now that
that will open up our flat rate for the 1 shipping zone that we have called USA and we can then title
And so we need to use the same decimal amount and say we have $8 for shipping and click save changes.
Great now our settings have been saved and that shipping amount will be calculated for the customer
for every one of our products.
I've already set one flat rate shipping method to my USA zone and so now I'll add free shipping as a
second shipping method.
Now if I click my free shipping method link over here I can define what free shipping requires.
open choice.
But I can make it conditional on having a valid free shipping coupon a minimum order amount or a combination
So if I do a minimum order amount of say if somebody spends 100 dollars well then they'll get free shipping
and then I can advertise that let's click shipping options at the top.
we can enable a shipping calculator on the cart page which would enable a customer to calculate their
Now since we're going to be setting up just a flat rate shipping charge for the entire region or zone
we can uncheck the calculator and not have that on there.
choice for the store owner and we're going to be advertising that we have a flat rate shipping for the
Now the shipping destination you can see under this tool tip this controls which shipping address is
I think it's a good idea to default to the shipping address because sometimes that can be different
So just click Save changes and then we'll take a look at the next item the shipping classes.
You may not have to use shipping classes but if you roll over the tool tip you can see that they can
weight or if you have heavy items and you need to provide a different rate for that class of product
You might be able to do that to split your different flat rates into their shipping classes.
We'll just leave that alone for now.
So that's almost all there is to it in terms of setting the shipping for our entire store.
the cart and we can look at how the shipping is presented to the customer.
You can see that if you scroll down a little bit in the shopping cart the cart totals show subtil total
of shipping which is labeled flat rate and shows the cost.
And then it totals it.
So if we proceed to checkout you can see that that has the flat rate amount detailed as well and it
and they can go on with their purchase from there.
But you can see that we've gone over all the settings you might have to do some different calculations
Let's quickly go back into the new settings and let's look at a particular product page so that we can
So if we look at this happy ninja product that we put in our car a moment ago if you look down under
and you can assign it to one of the shipping classes we discussed before.
And so with the shipping calculator depending on where the location of the person is and the weight
and the dimensions of the shipping box you can let Wu commerce decide how much to charge the customer.
While we're here on the product page.
Let's start talking about virtual and downloadable products.
Obviously if you're going to offer a download for somebody and have them purchase that item and have
And you can see right here under product data that there are two checkboxes virtual Prucha products
file upon purchase.
that allows you to manage downloadable products and access to a file upon purchase.
It's very powerful.
And we'll go over setting up a digital e-commerce product right now.
Back on the products page.
How about this first one in the list.
Single number two.
And then we can test the downloading process as a customer.
So the first thing I'll do to set this product up as a digital and downloadable product is I'll scroll
the shipping option over on the left hand side because a virtual product is intangible and it's not
And then also click the downloadable box.
You can see that when I check that box down below this regular and the sale price items it gave me a
So one thing we can do right here is add the file and I know that I have an image on my desktop that
store.
one file as a downloadable part of a single product.
And so we'll just add one file at this point.
I'll just call it new single too since that's the name of this product and you should also know that
somewhere else besides the Web site Media Library.
Newcomers will protect your files against downloading and offer them up only to customers who purchase
And in that way you can choose the media library or any you are l where you keep your files.
But I'll just click Choose file and now if I go to upload files and hit select file I'm going to go
And there's this large image and I can just hit open and that will upload it to that media library and
this product to download the file and you can also place a download limit for how many times you want
You can have this download link expire after a certain number of days if you like or you can just leave
and product in your website is listed in the search engine directories like Google.
Is it an application or software or a standard product.
Just so this is easy to test so that we can buy it without exchanging any money and check our downloading
So if down here if I just change the sale price to zero that'll show that it's on sale for free at the
Then I'll go and click the update button.
One more place we can go in the Wordpress dashboard for downloadable items and their settings is under
I've navigated to the general settings page and then under products.
This page just has a few items to choose from and the main one is the file download method.
Now there's three options here.
You can read a little bit about it using the tool tip here but there is a good document in the commerce
docs.
I searched for downloadable product and I found this link here.
You can read the link right here if you like in their documentation but it gives good information about
Basically what it's saying is that forced downloads uses ph at the server to serve the downloadable
item to the customer.
And if it's very large you might incur a timeout if you have large items like video files or audio files
in which case if your server has this mud installed the send file method is better.
Next you can check downloads require logging which is a good idea if you're in if you're having your
They can go to your Web site and go to their account page to click their download buttons for products
or whether they are accessible while the order is processing.
So with all of our downloadable items options set.
Let's go back to the web store front end and we'll look at our product and buy it as if we were a customer.
So I scroll down to the single number two.
First of all you can see it has a sale icon and the real price is crossed off.
And even though I put the numbers zero in the sale price it goes free with an exclamation point.
So I can click Add to Cart and then view cart looking at my cart I could see that the total is zero
And as we get on here cart totals are zero.
So I can proceed to the checkout and as I scroll down I'll need to put some required information here
just because these are required billing details even though the end result will be zero dollars.
And in a subsequent video we'll be learning how to not require all this billing info.
But for now I'll just fill this in the video for a second and be right back to place my order now that
I can click the place order button and it says order received.
And now this is the great part.
And these are my order details.
too.
That's my object that I can download.
And so what happens if I click that right now it knows that I'm logged in and it allows me to download
Great.
So let me cancel that.
And since I'm logged in as the customer I can go down to the third tab here and click downloads and
Here's the product page and it says how many how many remaining infinity and it never expires and here's
my download button again that's working to download the file that I defined within this product and
Once I click OK great.
If I open that and open a folder in Windows Explorer which is that downloads folder and there's large
image if I just double click it it'll show me what I've downloaded.
That was on sale for free.
But you can see how the downloading works for products that you can offer that are virtual products
and downloadable items.
If I'm not logged in in fact this is a good test right here inside of my account I can hit the logout
And now that I'm logged out if I go to my account I don't have any information here that I can get.
I need to be logged in in order to download my product.
that was placed.
I've got a new customer order it tells me what was ordered and the customer details and secondly the
Of course you can customize this e-mail template and we'll learn how to do that in a future video to
Not only does it give you information about your order as a customer but it also gives you a link to
And so that's another very customer friendly way that will comer's uses the e-mails to provide your
But I have to be logged in to download the files.
It tells me who I am and I've got all my information here.
I can click downloads and there's my file in this lesson.
You continue to set up your Wu commers powered web store setting up shipping options and exploring and
video you'll learn how to streamline the process for providing free products and downloads so that the
This is a great way to use wew commerce to provide a free download in exchange for an email address
to build a marketing list of leads and potential customers.
Let's do it.